.TH glasscoder 1 "August 2015" Linux "Linux Audio Manual"
.SH NAME
glasscoder \- Minimalist audio encoder for live streaming

.SH SYNOPSIS
glasscoder [OPTIONS]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBGlasscoder\fP is an audio encoder that is capable of generating live
streams using a variety of formats and sending them to an Icecast or
Shoutcast audio streaming server or posting them as HTTP Live Streams
[HLS].

\fBGlasscoder\fP has no GUI or configuration file components at all; its
sole 'user interface' is its command-line invocation.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --audio-bitrate=<\fIkbps\fP>
The constant stream data rate in kilobits per second.  Default value is 128.
Use of this option is mutually exclusive with that of the
\fB--audio-quality\fP option (see below).

.TP
.B --audio-channels=<\fIchans\fP>
The number of audio channels to use.  Valid values are \fI1\fP or \fI2\fP.
Default value is \fP2\fP.

.TP
.B --audio-device=<\fItype\fP>
The type of audio device to use.  The default value is \fBJACK\fP. See the
\fBDEVICE OPTIONS\fP section (below) for the options appropriate for each
audio device type.  Valid values are:
.RS

.TP
\fBALSA\fP
The Advanced Linux Sound Architecture.
.RE
.RS

.TP
\fBASIHPI\fP
AudioScience HPI.
.RE
.RS

.TP
\fBFILE\fP
Stream directly from a file.
.RE
.RS

.TP
\fBJACK\fP
The Jack Audio Connection Kit.
.RE


.TP
.B --audio-format=<\fIfmt\fP>
The audio encoding format to use.  The default value is \fBVORBIS\fP.  Valid
<\fIfmt\fP> values are:
.RS

.TP
\fBMP2\fP
MPEG-1/1.5 Layer 2
.RE
.RS

.TP
\fBMP3\fP
MPEG-1/1.5 Layer 3
.RE
.RS

.TP
\fBAAC\fP
MPEG-2 Advanced Audio Coding (Main Profile)
.RE
.RS

.TP
\fBAACP\fP
MPEG-4 Advanced Audio Coding (High Efficiency Profile)
.RE
.RS

.TP
\fBVORBIS\fP
Ogg Vorbis
.RE

.TP
.B --audio-quality=<\fIqual\fP>
Use variable bitrate streaming at the given audio quality.  <\fIfmt\fP> can
be in the range 0.0 (lowest quality) to 1.0 (highest).  Use of this option is mutually exclusive
with that of the \fB--audio-bitrate\fP option (see above).

.TP
.B --audio-samplerate=<\fIrate\fP>
The audio sample rate to use for streaming.  If the JACK graph is operating
at a different sample rate, the input will be automatically resampled to
this rate.  Default value is 44100.

.TP
.B --errors-to=\fBSTDERR\fP|\fBSYSLOG\fP|\fBSTDOUT\fP
Send error messages to one of the following destinations:
.RS

.TP
STDERR
Standard error.

.TP
SYSLOG
The system syslog service.

.TP
STDOUT
Standard output, in machine readable format (useful for communicating
with another 'controller' program).  See also the \fB--meter-data\fP
option below.

.TP
Default is to send error messages to standard error.

.RE

.TP
.B --help
Print a short usage message and exit.

.TP
.B --list-codecs
Print a list of available codecs and then exit.

.TP
.B --list-devices
Print a list of available source devices and then exit.

.TP
.B --server-auth=[<\fIusername\fP>][:<\fIpassword\fP>]
The authentication parameters to use.  This parameter has no default.

.TP
.B --server-script-down=<\fIcmd\fP>
Run the command <\fIcmd\fP> when the connection enters the
\fBdisconnected\fP state.

.TP
.B --server-script-up=<\fIcmd\fP>
Run the command <\fIcmd\fP> when the connection enters the
\fBconnected\fP state.

.TP
.B --server-type=<\fItype\fP>
The type of streaming server to use.  Valid values for <\fItype\fP> are:
.RS

.TP
HLS
HLS/HTTP Live Streaming

.TP
IceCast2
IceCast v2

.TP
Shout1
Shoutcast v1

.TP
Shout2
Shoutcast v2

.TP
Default value is \fIIceCast2\fP.
.RE

.TP
.B --server-url=<\fIurl\fP>
The URL describing the server resource to stream to.  This parameter has no
default.

.TP
.B --stream-aim=<\fIaim\fP>
The AOL Instant Messenger ID to associate with the stream.  There is no
default value.  This setting is used only by Shoutcast servers.

.TP
.B --stream-description=<\fIstring\fP>
The string to show as the stream description.  There is no default value.
This setting is used only by Icecast servers.

.TP
.B --stream-genre=<\fIstring\fP>
The string to show as the stream genre.  There is no default value.
This setting is used only by Icecast and Shoutcast servers.

.TP
.B --stream-icq=<\fIicq\fP>
The ICQ ID to associate with the stream.  There is no default value.
This setting is used only by Shoutcast servers.

.TP
.B --stream-irc=<\fIirc\fP>
The Internet Relay Chat ID to associate with the stream.  There is no
default value.  This setting is used only by Shoutcast servers.

.TP
.B --stream-name=<\fIstring\fP>
The string to show as the stream name.  There is no default value.
This setting is used only by Icecast and Shoutcast servers.

.TP
.B --stream-url=<\fIurl\fP>
The URL to show for a page giving more information about the stream.
There is no default value.  This setting is used only by Icecast and
Shoutcast servers, but is ignored by Shoutcast v2 servers.

.TP
.B --verbose
Increase verbosity level of information printed to standard error.
WARNING: this may cause cleartext passwords to printed!

.TP
.B --version
Output version information and exit.

.SH DEVICE OPTIONS

.TP
.B Advanced Linux Sound Architecture (--audio-device=ALSA)

.TP
.B --alsa-device=<\fIdev\fP>
The name of the ALSA device to use.  If no \fB--audio-device\fP option is given,
then the \fBhw:0\fP device will be used.

.TP
.B AudioScience HPI (--audio-device=ASIHPI)

.TP
.B --asihpi-adapter-index=<\fIindex\fP>
The index number of the audio adapter to use.

.TP
.B --asihpi-input-index=<\fIindex\fP>
The number of the input audio stream to use on the specified adapter.

.TP
.B --asihpi-input-gain=<\fIgain\fP>
The gain to apply to the input audio on the specified adapter in dB.  Valid
values are -100 to +20 inclusive.  Default value is 0.

.TP
.B --asihpi-channel_mode=<\fImode\fP>
The channel mode for the input audio on the specified adapter.  The default
value is \fBNORMAL\fP.  Valid values are:
.RS

.TP
\fBNORMAL\fP
Left signal goes to left channel, right signal goes to right channel.

.TP
\fBSWAP\fP
Left signal goes to right channel, right signal goes to left channel.

.TP
\fBLEFT\fP
Left signal goes to both left and right channels.

.TP
\fBRIGHT\fP
Right signal goes to both left and right channels.

.RE

.TP
.B --asihpi-input-source=<\fIsrc-node\fP>
The input source to use on the specified adapter.  See the
\fBHPI Source Nodes\fP section below for the list of valid <\fIsrc-node\fP>
values.  The default value is \fBLINEIN\fP.

.TP
.B --asihpi-input-type=<\fIsrc-node\fP>
The input type to use on the specified adapter.  See the
\fBHPI Source Nodes\fP section below for the list of valid <\fIsrc-node\fP>
values.  The default value is \fBLINEIN\fP.

.TP
.B HPI Source Nodes
The following values can used for the \fB--asihpi-input-source\fP and
\fB--asihpi-input-type]\fP options above:

.RS
.TP
\fBNONE\fP

.TP
\fBOSTREAM\fP
Internal output stream

.TP
\fBLINEIN\fP
Generic input signal

.TP
\fBAESEBU\fP
AES3 digital input

.TP
\fBTUNER\fP
Tuner

.TP
\fBRF\fP
RF input

.TP
\fBCLOCK\fP
Clock source

.TP
\fBBITSTREAM\fP
Raw bitstream

.TP
\fBMIC\fP
Microphone

.TP
\fBCOBRANET\fP
CobraNet

.TP
\fBANALOG\fP
Analog input

.TP
\fBADAPTER\fP
Adapter

.TP
\fBRTP\fP

.TP
\fBINTERNAL\fP
Device internal

.TP
\fBAVB\fP
AVB input

.TP
\fBBLULINK\fP
BLU-Link input

.RE 

.TP
.B Direct File Streaming (--audio-device=FILE)

.TP
.B --file-name=<\fIname\fP>
The name of the file to stream.  If no \fB--file-name\fP option is given,
then the name of the file will be read from standard input.

.TP
.B The Jack Audio Connection Kit (--audio-device=JACK)

.TP
.B --jack-server-name=<\fIname\fP>
The name of the JACK server instance to use.

.TP
.B --jack-client-name=<\fIname\fP>
The JACK client name to use.  Default is 'glasscoder'.



.SH NOTES
HTTP Live Streams [HLS] require support for the HTTP PUT and DELETE methods
on the publishing web server.  See the GlassCoder documentation directory
for a sample configuration for the Apache Web Server.

.SH AUTHOR
Fred Gleason <fredg@paravelsystems.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR jackd(1)









